The Serving Library is a “cooperatively-built archive that assembles itself by publishing.” Established in 2011, it is currently overseen by Francesca Bertolotti-Bailey, Stuart Bertolotti-Bailey, Angie Keefer, and David Reinfurt. The operation consists of three main components: a website that publishes freely downloadable PDFs twice a year on themes such as time, education, typography, and psychedelia; a printed journal of the same material released on the same cycle that continues from its predecessor “Dot Dot Dot”; and a physical library of objects and books in Liverpool, UK, that serve as the backdrop and raw material for a constant program of public events and pedagogical workshops.

According to the creators, the Serving Library is at the latest stage of the evolutionary lineage of library. First, libraries were modeled on the idea of archive, preserving and protecting important documents, restricting public access; then there came the “circulating libraries,” which ensured books and other resources to be used, rather than simply saved, by the public. Combining and extending the two previous models, the Serving Library was conceived as a “distributing library.” It is founded on the current technology of the Portable Document Format (PDF), by which a document may retain – unlike pure text data – the integrity and identity of printed pages, but can be limitlessly duplicated, downloaded and circulated via the internet. Thus the motto of the library, Hospitum ad infinitum, or “infinite hospitality.”

“Infinity” can be interpreted not only in terms of unlimited quantity, but also as a concept of structure or process: a loop, as aptly depicted by its typographic symbol (∞). The ambition of the Serving Library is not simply initiating a new mode of accumulating and distributing documents, for it is a site of production as well. “Publishing and archiving have traditionally existed at opposite ends of the trajectory of knowledge production,” observes the Serving Library’s creators. “[But] here, in accord with the cheap and easy distribution afforded by an electronic network, they coalesce into a single process.” Perhaps, then, the Serving Library is a spatial metaphor for what really is a temporal process.